[To be merged for 7.2] Containerless CLI procedure for 7.2.0 (#71)
migtools/mta-documentation: docs/topics/proc_running-the-containerless-mta-cli.adoc

:_newdoc-version: 2.18.3
:_template-generated: 2024-11-15
:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE

[id="running-the-containerless-mta-cli_{context}"]
= Running the containerless CLI

You can perform an application analysis for Java applications by using the {ProductShortName} CLI that does not require installation of a container runtime. 

.Prerequisites

> * You have OpenJDK version 17 or later installed on your system.

Author: We must be consistent in our style. That is, we should either use full sentences or just list the names of utilities/variables. I vote for full sentences to comply with our doc rules.

* You have Maven installed on your system.
* You have the `python3` package installed on your system.

> * You have the `JAVA_HOME` environmental variable set.

Author: ```suggestion
* You have the `JAVA_HOME` environmental variable set.
* Optional: You defined the ` JVM_MAX_MEM`  system variable.
+
NOTE: Defining ` JVM_MAX_MEM` is recommended. If you do not have this variable set, the analysis might hang.
```

Hi @ibragins, please check this suggestion ^ Based on what I can see in the [ticket](https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTA-4267), this prereq is not mandatory. So shall we have it as optional and just add a not that it is recommended? Or shall I make it just a usuall mandatory prereq? Thanks!

Reviewer: @mpershina it depends on the way how Java was installed. If it was installed using installer or package manager - it will work without setting JAVA_HOME, but if user will just unpack a tarball - system should be informed somehow where is java binary. In this case this var should be defined manually.

Author: @ibragins, I'm just a little bit confused. Are we speaking about only setting the `JAVA_HOME` var? Or are you talking about both `JAVA_HOME` and `JVM_MAX_MEM`?  Sorry, I just need to clarify this for myslef to produce some great text, haha :-D

Reviewer 2: @mpershina ,
 Optional: You defined the `JVM_MAX_MEM` ->  Optional: You **can define** the `JVM_MAX_MEM`

.Procedure

. Move the installed {ProductShortName} CLI `.zip` file to your `$PATH`:
+
[source,terminal,subs="attributes+"]
----
$ mv <mta_cli_zip>/<os>-kantra /usr/bin
----

> . Move the requirements to the `.kantra` directory:

Author: @eemcmullan  Just to clarify if I get it right: What do you mean by the "current directory", please?

> . Move the requirements to the `.kantra` directory:

Author: @eemcmullan ^

> . Move the requirements to the `.kantra` directory:

Reviewer 3: @mpershina the directory the user is running analysis from.

> . Move the requirements to the `.kantra` directory:

Author: Ack, thanks! Will rewrite with the next commit.

> . Move the requirements to the `.kantra` directory:

Author: @eemcmullan, I gave it another thought: Maybe it's even better to remove the  `Open a terminal and navigate to the directory where you installed the {ProductShortName} CLI.` step completely. Per what you explained, I understand that this procedure talks about moving the requirements to $HOME/.kantra, which implies that the user doesn't need to navigate to another directory. And if my understanding is correct, the info about CLI looking for requirements in the current dir is not needed at all....WDYT about it? I updated the source code with my suggestions, could you please check? Is this correct? https://github.com/migtools/mta-documentation/pull/71/files

> . Move the requirements to the `.kantra` directory:

Reviewer 3: It's probably worth noting that the cli can run with the downloaded reqs in the dir which analysis run. The cli will look here first, and fall back to `home/.kantra` if not found.  I think this gives them more choice over how they use the cli, as they don't necessarily have to create a specific dir for the reqs and move everything there.

> . Move the requirements to the `.kantra` directory:

Author: Ok, got it, @eemcmullan, I added a Note suggestion below right after this step, WDYT?

`NOTE: The CLI can run with the requirements moved to the directory from which you run an analysis. During the analysis, the CLI looks for the requirements in this directory first, and if it does not find the requirements, it looks for them in the `$HOME/.kantra` directory.`

> . Move the requirements to the `.kantra` directory:

Reviewer 3: LGTM, thanks!

+
[source,terminal,subs="attributes+"]
----
$ mv $HOME/kantra.<os>.<arch> $HOME/.kantra
----

> . Open a terminal and navigate to the directory where you installed the {ProductShortName} CLI.

Author: Ack, will attempt to rewrite it to include this info.

. Run the application analysis:
+
[source,terminal,subs="attributes+"]
----

> $ mta-cli analyze --overwrite --input <path_to_input>  --output <path_to_output> --target <target_source>

Author: There are no details about it in any other part of the doc, I think. But I also don't think we should actually add steps for custom rules here. I'd maybe suggest to have a separate small procedure for running CLI with custom rules, and mention in this exact step that this is for default rulesets. WDYT?

> $ mta-cli analyze --overwrite --input <path_to_input>  --output <path_to_output> --target <target_source>

Author: I could add this as an optional first step, for example:

```
. Optional: Display all `mta-cli analyze` command options:
[source,terminal,subs="attributes+"]
----
mta-cli analyze --help
----
```

:_newdoc-version: 2.18.3
:_template-generated: 2024-11-15
:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE

[id="running-the-containerless-mta-cli_{context}"]
= Running the containerless CLI

You can perform an application analysis for Java applications by using the {ProductShortName} CLI that does not require installation of a container runtime. 

.Prerequisites

> * You have OpenJDK version 17 or later installed on your system.
> * You have Maven installed on your system.
> * You have Gradle installed on your system.
> * The `RUN_LOCAL` environmental variable is set to `true`:
> +
> ----
> RUN_LOCAL=true 
> ----
> +
> Note that if you do not set this variable to `true`, the analysis will run inside a container. 
> +
> IMPORTANT: The analysis for languages other than Java is not affected by the  RUN_LOCAL variable.

Author: ```suggestion
* You have OpenJDK version 17 or later installed on your system.
* You have Maven installed on your system.
* You have the `python3` package installed on your system.
```

.Procedure

. Move the installed {ProductShortName} CLI `.zip` file to your `$PATH`:
+
[source,terminal,subs="attributes+"]
----
$ mv <mta_cli_zip>/<os>-kantra /usr/bin
----

. Move the requirements to the `.kantra` directory:
+
[source,terminal,subs="attributes+"]
----
$ mv $HOME/kantra.<os>.<arch> $HOME/.kantra
----

. Open a terminal and navigate to the directory where you installed the {ProductShortName} CLI.

. Run the application analysis:
+

> [source,terminal,subs="attributes+"]
> ----
> $ mta-cli analyze-bin --overwrite --input <path_to_input>  --output <path_to_output> --target <target_source>
> ----

Author: ```suggestion
[source,terminal,subs="attributes+"]
----
$ mta-cli analyze --overwrite --input <path_to_input>  --output <path_to_output> --target <target_source>
----
```

:_newdoc-version: 2.18.3
:_template-generated: 2024-11-15
:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE

[id="running-the-containerless-mta-cli_{context}"]
= Running the containerless CLI

Starting from {ProductShortName} 7.2.0, you can perform an application analysis for Java applications by using the {ProductShortName} CLI that does not require installation of a container runtime. 

[IMPORTANT]
====

> In {ProductShortName} 7.2.0 and later, containerless CLI is a default mode. To enable container runtime usage, you must set the `--run-local` variable to `false`:

Author: Now that I think of it, I guess I remember it was added as a flag in another pull request. Will fix the wording.

----
--run-local=false
----
====

.Prerequisites

* You have OpenJDK version 17 or later installed on your system.

> * You have Maven installed on your system.

Reviewer 3: For maven commands, we find the binary via a `lookpath("mvn)`  to search for it in the PATH. We don't do this for the Java bin as we specifically want to use the one set in JAVA_HOME.

> * You have Maven installed on your system.

Reviewer 4: So then that means that we should specify that the path to the `mvn` binary needs to be added to the PATH variable. @eemcmullan could you confirm? This is important, because Maven doesn't have an installer in Windows, so users would have to do that manually, so we should be pretty specific about it.

> * You have Maven installed on your system.

Reviewer 3: @rromannissen  +1 I agree

> * You have Maven installed on your system.

Author: @rromannissen @eemcmullan  What about a Note then? Right under this one prereq? For example:

```
* You have Maven installed on your system.
+
IMPORTANT: You must also add the `mvn` binary file to the `PATH` variable.
```

[id="running-the-containerless-mta-cli_{context}"]
= Running the containerless CLI

Starting from {ProductShortName} 7.2.0, you can perform an application analysis for Java applications by using the {ProductShortName} CLI that does not require installation of a container runtime. 

[IMPORTANT]
==== 
In {ProductShortName} 7.2.0 and later, containerless CLI is a default mode. To enable container runtime usage, you must set the `--run-local` flag to `false`:

----
--run-local=false
----
====

.Prerequisites

* You have OpenJDK version 17 or later installed on your system.
* You have Maven installed on your system.
* You have the `python3` package installed on your system.
* You have the `JAVA_HOME` environmental variable set.
* You have the `JVM_MAX_MEM` system variable set.
+
NOTE: If you do not set `JVM_MAX_MEM`, the analysis might hang.

.Procedure

. Move the installed {ProductShortName} CLI `.zip` file to your `$PATH`:
+
[source,terminal,subs="attributes+"]
----
$ mv <mta_cli_zip>/<os>-kantra /usr/bin
----

. Move the requirements to the `.kantra` directory:
+
[source,terminal,subs="attributes+"]
----
$ mv $HOME/kantra.<os>.<arch> $HOME/.kantra

> ----

Author: ```suggestion
----
+
NOTE: The CLI can run with the requirements moved to the directory from which you run an analysis. During the analysis, the CLI looks for the requirements in this directory first, and if it does not find the requirements, it looks for them in the `$HOME/.kantra` directory.
```

:_newdoc-version: 2.18.3
:_template-generated: 2024-11-15
:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE

[id="running-the-containerless-mta-cli_{context}"]
= Running the containerless CLI

Starting from {ProductShortName} 7.2.0, you can perform an application analysis for Java applications by using the {ProductShortName} CLI that does not require installation of a container runtime. 

[IMPORTANT]
==== 
In {ProductShortName} 7.2.0 and later, containerless CLI is a default mode. To enable container runtime usage, you must set the `--run-local` flag to `false`:

----
--run-local=false
----
====

.Prerequisites

* You have OpenJDK version 17 or later installed on your system.

> * You have Maven installed on your system.

Author: ```suggestion
* You have Maven installed on your system.
* The CLI assumes that a path to the `mvn` binary is correctly registered in the system variable. Therefore, ensure that you added `mvn` to the following variable:
+
** `Path` for Windows.
** `PATH` for Linux and macOS.
```

[IMPORTANT]
==== 
In {ProductShortName} 7.2.0 and later, containerless CLI is a default mode. To enable container runtime usage, you must set the `--run-local` flag to `false`:

----
--run-local=false
----
====

.Prerequisites

* You have OpenJDK version 17 or later installed on your system.
* You have Maven installed on your system.
* The CLI assumes that a path to the `mvn` binary is correctly registered in the system variable. Therefore, ensure that you added `mvn` to the following variable:
** `Path` for Windows.
** `PATH` for Linux and macOS.
* You have the `python3` package installed on your system.
* You have the `JAVA_HOME` environmental variable set.
* You have the `JVM_MAX_MEM` system variable set.
+
NOTE: If you do not set `JVM_MAX_MEM`, the analysis might hang.

.Procedure

. Move the installed {ProductShortName} CLI `.zip` file to your `$PATH`:
+
[source,terminal,subs="attributes+"]
----
$ mv <mta_cli_zip>/<os>-kantra /usr/bin
----

. Move the requirements to the `.kantra` directory:
+
[source,terminal,subs="attributes+"]
----
$ mv $HOME/kantra.<os>.<arch> $HOME/.kantra
----
+

> NOTE: The CLI can run with the requirements moved to the directory from which you run an analysis. During the analysis, the CLI looks for the requirements in this directory first, and if it does not find the requirements, it looks for them in the `$HOME/.kantra` directory.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
NOTE: The CLI can run with the requirements moved to the directory from which you run an analysis. During the analysis, the CLI checks for the requirements in this directory first, and if it does not find the requirements, it searches for them in the `$HOME/.kantra` directory.
```

Pedantic... just felt `looks` used twice in quick succession was a wee bit strange to read

Author: Yeah, makes sense :-D

:_newdoc-version: 2.18.3
:_template-generated: 2024-11-15
:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE

[id="running-the-containerless-mta-cli_{context}"]
= Running the containerless CLI

Starting from {ProductShortName} 7.2.0, you can perform an application analysis for Java applications by using the {ProductShortName} CLI that does not require installation of a container runtime. 

[IMPORTANT]
==== 
In {ProductShortName} 7.2.0 and later, containerless CLI is a default mode. To enable container runtime usage, you must set the `--run-local` flag to `false`:

----
--run-local=false
----
====

.Prerequisites

* You have OpenJDK version 17 or later installed on your system.
* You have Maven installed on your system.

> * The CLI assumes that a path to the `mvn` binary is correctly registered in the system variable. Therefore, ensure that you added `mvn` to the following variable:
> +

Author: ```suggestion
* The CLI assumes that a path to the `mvn` binary is correctly registered in the system variable. Therefore, ensure that you added `mvn` to the following variable:
```
